Before we start creating our first visualizations, it's time to take a closer look at the interface of
the report view.
So here I am back in our project file and on the measures page, what if we want to create a new page?
Well to do this, we can simply click onto that plus symbol right here, like this and rename that page
by double-clicking it and naming it new
for instance, if we now press enter, we have that new page name new.
Now if you want to delete that page, you have two options,
you can either right-click it, like this and press delete or click it again and now press that little x symbol
right here.
If you do that, the page will be deleted like this and then you press delete again.
So this is how we can create a new page
but what if we want to copy an existing page,
so create a duplicate actually? To do this, we can simply right-click on the page that you want to duplicate
and then press duplicate page, like that.
So this is the main overview of that part down here, of the different pages that we have in our report,
let's now focus on the ribbons up there.
We are in the home ribbon now
and I think you know that get data,
recent sources, enter data and so on
but if you look at this insert area right here, then you can see some new features,
the first feature is the new page feature.
If we click that, then we can see that we can create a blank page or a duplicate page,
so this is basically the same functionality that we just saw when we talked about the pages, down here.
Let's take a look at the next option,
the new visual option right here and what immediately happens is that Power BI automatically creates a
new visualization.
In that case, we created a column chart, as you can see right here,
if you want to change that visualization, then you can simply select another one like this for instance
or like that.
So this is how you can create a new visualization using the ribbon up here. In this module,
we will simply create the visualizations by directly selecting it in that visualizations area
but we'll talk about that in a few seconds. If you want to delete that visualization right here,
then you can simply press delete,
so this is the new visual button right here.
Let's take a quick look at those three options,
the first option is the text box,
if we click that, then we can insert a text box into our report page and we can drag that around of course
just like the visualizations and write something like hello,
then you can of course select the entire, whoops,
then you can of course select the entire word and change the font style, the font size right here
and make it bold, underline it or change the alignment.
We won't need that so we can click right here and press delete again
and now we have another option, shapes, this one.
If we click that, then we can see that we can insert different shapes into our report,
let's try a line for instance.
So we have that line right here,
we can make it bigger,
now I unselected it,
sorry,
so we can, we selected it like this and we can play around with the format, right there. So we can delete that
again by pressing delete.
So this is the home ribbon
but we have another ribbon, right,
we have that view ribbon right here. In that view ribbon,
we have four main options actually.
The first thing is the phone layout
and as you can see, you now can insert your visualizations into a mobile phone style,
for instance, if we select the left visualization right here and drag it into that stylized phone, then
we have it
and if you select it, we can increase it like this or like that
and if we scroll down, we can insert the second visualization, this one for instance,
leke this, click it and like that.
So this is the phone layout, again
we won't need that in that module so we can go back to our desktop layout right here
and as you can see, we didn't change our desktop layout, we only worked in the phone layout.
Another option is the page view right here.
If you click that, then you can decide on how you want the page to be displayed in this overview. Now
we have two more options left up here,
show grid lines,
let's click that
and as you can see, you now have these grid lines in your report page which allow you to position your
visualizations more precisely then
and if you want to increase that precision, then you can also add these snap objects to grid option, right
here.
What's the difference?
Well, I now selected that and if I now select a visualization and drag it to the right or let me drag it
to the top first,
then you can see that it only moves point by point, so down or up right or left. If I unselect that snap
objects to grid option like this, then I can move it as I prefer,
so let's keep it this way and let's unselect the grid lines also.
So now we got that view ribbon, the modeling ribbon,
well you know that ribbon already, so we will skip that but we have that format and data drill ribbons
now
and these only appear if you select a visualization.
Let's go to format first right here
and here we have well, two fields.
We have the interactions and we will skip that for now and talk about that later
and we have the range options,
well let's talk about that arrangement,
you might know that from other tools but I think it's good that you can see how this works
in Power BI. So bring forward or send backward but if we simply select that visualization right here and drag it
on top of this one, then you can see if I unselect it that this second visualization, so that number is
on top of that column chart,
if I select it and now go to send backward and send it to the back and click right here, then you can see
that the visualization is now behind that column chart.
If I select the column chart and press send back right here, then the initial visualization is in front
of that column chart again,
that's what you can do with that.
Let's drag it right here again because I think it looks better and go back to the format menu which
is still open.
Now we have the align option right here,
what is that?
Well let's assume you want to do the following,
you want to track that right here and now you want to align all of these visualizations to
the top,
so at the same height. To do this, you simply select one visualization, press and hold the control key,
select a second one and a third one,
now go to align,
now we will align the visualizations on top like this.
Now I have to bring some case into that for the next option, the distribute option,
let me first use that and drag it to the left, right here for instance.
Now let's again select all of the visualizations, like this,
click distribute and if I now click distribute horizontally, then you can see that the perfectly distributed
our visualizations. Let me click right here and only select one visualization then,
then we have that data drill ribbon up here,
we will talk about that later throughout that module
and if you now click here, we see that we have our basic three ribbons again.
So we understood the pages, we understood the ribbons,
let's now take a quick look at the write-to columns,
the visualizations and the fields. The visualizations up here,
well you probably know that already,
you can simply click in here, on that pie chart for instance and then you have the visualization
and you can drag it around of course, as you prefer and you can change the visualization by selecting another
visualization,
we talked about that a few minutes ago.
Now in that area right here, you can define what data should be displayed in the different segments of
your visualization,
so axis, legend and so on
and this area changes depending on the visualization that you select.
So we now have that line chart with those four options,
if we use the column chart right here, then we have five options because we additionally have that color
saturation. If you want to bring that with visualization to life,
you have to add some data right here and these data can be found in that fields column.
Here you can see the names of the different tables that you have in your data model
and if you click onto that arrow right here like this, then you can see the different columns of the
table and the measures,
you remember those population measures that we created in the last module,
we can also use them in our visualizations as we tried it right here
but for the moment, we won't add any information to that visualizations, so we can close that and
scroll down right here maybe to the filter area.
We will also learn what that is in that module
but as you can see, apparently you can set different filters in your visualizations.
So the last thing of the interface I want to show you are those three buttons right here.
Here we have the fields area,
let me scroll up again before,
so we know that fields area with the dragged data fields boxes right here.
The second options is the formatting area, depending on your visualization,
this changes of course also and we will talk about some basic formatting topics in that module,
the last option is the analytics option, right here.
This won't work at the moment because we don't have any data in it and we will also focus on the fields
and on the formatting manuals in that module.
So this is it,
we now have a better understanding of the interface in the report view,
so we are now finally prepared to create our first visualizations.